This article is about our commercial products such as Claude for Work and the Anthropic API. For our consumer products such as Claude Free, Pro, Max and when accounts from those plans use Claude Code, see here.
Standard Retention Timeframe
For Anthropic API users, we automatically delete inputs and outputs on our backend within 30 days of receipt or generation, except:
- When you use a service with longer retention under your control (e.g. Files API)
- When you and we have agreed otherwise (e.g. zero data retention agreement)
- If we need to retain them for longer to enforce our Usage Policy (UP)
- In compliance with the law
If you use our other commercial products (e.g. Claude for Work, Claude for Enterprise, Anthropic Console, etc.) that allow you to save and continue conversations with Claude, we retain your chats and coding sessions in the product to provide you with a consistent product experience.
You control your conversations and can delete your chats anytime from your dashboard. When you delete a conversation it’s:
- Removed from your chat history immediately
- Deleted from our back-end storage systems within 30 days
Incognito chats are automatically deleted within 30 days unless flagged as a Usage Policy violation. Learn more about Incognito chats for your organization.
Covered Models
Additionally, for Covered Models, we require limited data retention and review as a part of our safety work. To learn more about Covered Models and these requirements, see here.
Usage Policy Violations
We retain inputs and outputs for up to 2 years and trust and safety classification scores for up to 7 years if your chat is flagged by our automated trust and safety systems as violating our Usage Policy.
In all cases, we may retain your chats or sessions as required by law or as necessary to combat violations of our Usage Policy. If permitted in your contract with us, we may anonymize your organization’s data for research or statistical purposes, in which case we may retain this information for longer.
Feedback Data
Where you have provided feedback to us (e.g. by submitting feedback through our thumbs up/down button or sent bug reports), we retain data associated with that submission for 5 years. Learn more.
In all cases, we may retain your chats or sessions as required by law or as necessary to combat violations of our Usage Policy. If permitted in your contract with us, we may anonymize your organization’s data for research or statistical purposes, in which case we may retain this information for longer.
For more information about our privacy practices, please see our Trust Center and Data Processing Addendum.
