Table of contents
Exit editor mode
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Reading mode
Table of contents
Read in English
Add
Add to Plans
Edit
Copy Markdown
Print
Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
signing in
or
changing directories
.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
changing directories
.
Privacy and protections
Feedback
Summarize this article for me
Note
Microsoft 365 Copilot is now named Microsoft Copilot, and Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat is now named Microsoft Copilot Chat. Some experiences, licenses, and capabilities might continue to reference Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the transition period. There are no changes to security, compliance, and privacy for organizations.
Microsoft Copilot Chat prompts and responses are processed within the Microsoft 365 service boundary, which offers
enterprise data protection
. This means that security, privacy, and compliance controls and commitments available for Microsoft Copilot also extend to Copilot Chat. Prompts and responses aren't used to train the underlying foundation models.
Prompt
: User selects a prewritten prompt or writes their own prompt in Copilot Chat from the web, the Microsoft Copilot app, Teams, or Outlook. The prompt is sent to the Copilot orchestrator for processing. Copilot Chat uses the same orchestrator as Microsoft Copilot to process prompts and responses. It coordinates Responsible AI (RAI) safety checks throughout the process and logs the interaction for auditing/eDiscovery.
The specific controls and policies vary depending on the underlying subscription plan.
Grounding
: Copilot preprocesses the input prompt using web grounding via the Bing search service (only applicable if web grounding is enabled). Web grounding sends web search queries consisting of a few words generated from the prompt to Bing to provide relevant information for the response. Queries are sent via a secure connection to Bing and don't include any user or tenant identifiers. Additional contractual protections apply to these queries when sent to Bing. For more information on web search queries, see
Privacy and security for generated search queries
.
Unlike Microsoft Copilot, Copilot Chat is not grounded in organizational content like files, emails, or chats as part of the chat experience—it is grounded in data from the web only. If Copilot Chat users would like to use organizational content in their chat, they can do so in four ways:
As part of their prompt (such as copying and pasting in content, uploading a file using the '+' button, dragging and dropping a file into the chat box, including a file by typing '/' and selecting it from the ContextIQ menu, or selecting a suggested prompt which contains a file).
By using Copilot Chat in Outlook. In this scenario, Copilot Chat can access user data including their emails, calendar, meetings, chats, and limited file content (OneDrive and SharePoint).
By using a pay-as-you-go agent that has access to organizational content.
Learn more about
organizational data and Copilot Chat
(within this article).
Large Language Model (LLM)
: Copilot sends the grounded prompt to the LLM to generate a relevant response. Copilot Chat may use multiple models to generate a response.
Logging
: Before sending the response back to the user, both the prompt and response are logged and stored in Exchange for auditing/eDiscovery (Microsoft 365 tenant).
Response
: Copilot coordinates Responsible AI (RAI) safety checks and returns the response to the app and the user.
The following video provides an overview of privacy, security, and compliance in Copilot Chat. It's 2 minutes and 27 seconds long.
Enterprise data protection for prompts and responses
Copilot Chat offers enterprise data protection (EDP) for prompts and responses. EDP is available in Copilot Chat at no extra cost. Copilot Chat makes it clear that enterprise data protection is applied by featuring a green shield along the top of the user interface next to the New Chat button.
Enterprise data protection refers to controls and commitments, under the
Data Protection Addendum
(DPA) and the
Product Terms
, that apply to customer data for users of Microsoft Copilot and Copilot Chat, with Microsoft acting as a data processor.
Get more details on
enterprise data protection for prompts and responses
in Microsoft Copilot and Copilot Chat.
Privacy and security of generated search queries
To help improve the quality of responses, Copilot Chat can use web search queries sent to the Bing search service to ground responses in the latest information from the web.
The Bing search service operates separately from Microsoft 365 and has different data-handling practices from those used for prompts and responses. These data-handling practices are covered by the
Microsoft Services Agreement
between each user and Microsoft, together with the
Microsoft Privacy Statement
. This means that Microsoft acts as an independent data controller responsible for complying with all applicable laws and controller obligations. This approach is consistent with other
optional connected experiences that rely on Bing
.
Learn more about data, privacy, and security of web queries
.
How generated search queries work:
Copilot Chat parses a user's prompt and identifies terms where web search would improve the quality of the response. Based on these terms, Copilot Chat generates a search query that it sends via secure connection to the Bing search service asking for more information.
This generated search query is different from the user's original prompt—it consists of a few words informed by the user's prompt. Additional terms from uploaded files or content actively viewed in Edge may also be sent to the Bing search service to ground responses if Copilot Chat needs them to understand the user's prompt.
The following information is
not included
in the generated query sent to the Bing search service:
Any user or tenant identifiers (for example: username, domain, or tenant ID)
The user's entire prompt, unless the prompt is very short (for example, "local weather")
Entire files uploaded into Copilot Chat (uploaded files are stored in a user's OneDrive for Business as part of enterprise data protection)
Entire web pages or PDFs summarized by Copilot Chat in Edge
Generated web search queries aren't shared with advertisers. Also, web search queries sent to Bing don't impact any of the following:
Search ranking
Answers or features like rich captions
Social features like autosuggest, trending, and zero input
After Copilot Chat receives additional information from the Bing search service, this information is used to compose the response returned to the user. This table provides examples of a user's prompt and the generated search queries sent to Bing. It also explains how Copilot Chat formulates a response.
User prompt
Generated search queries
How Copilot Chat provides a response
We're considering a possible acquisition of Fabrikam. Summarize financial information about the company, including their business strategy.
Fabrikam strategy
Fabrikam financials
Copilot Chat returns a response that includes publicly available information relevant to these two search queries.
Along with the prompt, the user uploads a document about clean energy strategy.
Summarize this document and tell me if Fabrikam has publicly announced a similar approach.
Fabrikam clean energy policy announcements
Copilot Chat reasons over this document and identifies "clean energy policy" as a major theme. "Clean energy policy" is added to the generated search query sent to the Bing search service (the document itself isn't included). The rest of the generated query is inferred from the prompt itself.
Copilot Chat then takes web search results returned from Bing and identifies any similarities between this public information and the strategy described in the internal document.
After the chat session ends, the document is no longer retained by Copilot Chat.
User has navigated to a public news article on the web about clean energy and uses Copilot Chat in Edge to ask for a summary.
What does this article say about clean energy?
None
To generate a page summary, Copilot Chat can infer all needed information from the text on the page itself. No generated search query is necessary.
After the chat session ends, any information from the web page is no longer retained by Copilot Chat.
Web search query citations
To provide greater visibility into the generated search queries, web search query citations are shown to users in the linked citation section of the Copilot Chat response. This section shows the exact web search queries (derived from the user's prompt) that were sent to the Bing search service. Showing the exact web search queries helps users understand what search queries, along with the sites searched, were used to enhance Copilot Chat's response to their prompt. This information can help users improve their prompts and use Copilot Chat more effectively. Web search query citations are available in the chat thread for 24 hours.
Logging prompts and responses
With enterprise data protection, prompts and responses in Copilot Chat are logged. The same retention policies used for Microsoft Copilot can be used for Copilot Chat. This allows for new feature experiences like allowing users to return to a previous chat. Learn more about
retention policies
or
audit logging
.
Note
The specific controls and policies will vary depending on the underlying subscription plan.
Organizational data
Copilot Chat is a generative AI service grounded in data from the public web from the Bing search service. Unlike Microsoft Copilot, Copilot Chat can only access organizational content in select circumstances. Users have four options to access content from their organization for Copilot Chat to use:
Option 1 – Provide content as part of their prompt:
Users can provide organizational content as part of their prompt in Copilot Chat. They can do so in the following ways:
Users explicitly type or paste this information directly into the chat.
Users upload a file by selecting the '+' button in the chat box. They can also drag and drop a file into the chat box. Uploaded files are stored in a user's OneDrive for Business as part of enterprise data protection.
Users type '/' in the prompt box to open the ContextIQ menu and search for a specific file they have access to. This adds the file to the prompt for Copilot Chat to reason over, just as if they had uploaded the file.
Users select a suggested prompt from under the prompt box that contains a file that the user has access to. Suggested prompts containing files are shown to the user based on interaction signals (such as if the file was accessed, modified, or shared with or by the user) and file properties (such as when it was created or last updated by the user).
Option 2 – Use Copilot Chat with open content:
In select scenarios, Copilot Chat is aware of the user's open content which enables Copilot Chat to engage with it. This can happen in the following scenarios:
When using the Word, Excel, or PowerPoint agents, Copilot Chat is aware of the user's open content like a file or spreadsheet. This allows users to ask questions, generate content, and otherwise engage with that content while using Copilot Chat. Copilot Chat is only aware of the specific content that the user has open and cannot access other work data unless the user provides it.
When using the Microsoft Copilot mobile app and selecting a suggested prompt with a file, Copilot Chat will use the file's content as part of the response.
When using Copilot Chat in Edge if the 'Allow access to any webpage or PDF' setting is enabled by the user or admin and an intranet page is open in the browser. In this scenario, Copilot Chat can use the content of this page to help answer questions.
Option 3 - Use Copilot Chat in Outlook:
Copilot Chat in Outlook can access user data to provide relevant responses. The accessible user data includes their emails, calendar, meetings, chats, and files limited to the following boundaries:
Files in a user's OneDrive and other OneDrive files they have access to
Files from their frequently visited SharePoint sites
Files that were shared directly with them
Files that a user has viewed, edited, or created
This lets users do things like ask questions about their inbox, prioritize and triage their emails, or prepare for upcoming meetings when using Copilot Chat in Outlook. User data used by Copilot Chat in its response is accessed via lexical indexing. Access to full work data as part of Work IQ and
semantic indexing
is only available for users with the Microsoft Copilot license.
Option 4 – Use an agent that has access to organizational content:
Users can also access organizational content through agents that have been grounded in shared tenant data, such as SharePoint or Microsoft 365 Copilot connector content. While using these agents, users can prompt Copilot Chat about the data or content that the agent has access to. Learn more about
discovering, creating, or utilizing agents
.
Copilot Chat does not use your data to train foundation models.
Note
Chat experiences in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint vary depending on your tenant configuration and license. Learn more in the
Microsoft Copilot overview
.
Generating files in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint agents
Copilot Chat allows users to generate files from prompts within the Word, Excel, and PowerPoint agents. PowerPoint presentations generated by Copilot Chat are stored in the user's OneDrive if storage is available. Copilot-generated Word documents and Excel workbooks are available for download by the user. PowerPoint presentations are also available for download if OneDrive storage isn't available.
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
The
May 21, 2018, blog post
from Microsoft outlines our commitment to GDPR compliance and how Microsoft helps businesses and other organizations meet their own GDPR obligations. With enterprise data protection, Copilot Chat supports GDPR. Get more details on
GDPR when using Microsoft products and services
.
EU Data Boundary (EUDB)
Copilot Chat calls to the LLM are routed to the closest data centers in the region, but can also call into other regions where greater capacity is available when utilization is especially high.
For European Union (EU) users, Copilot Chat has additional safeguards to comply with the
EU Data Boundary
. EU traffic stays within the EU Data Boundary, while worldwide traffic can be sent to the EU and other countries or regions for LLM processing.
Copilot Chat data residency commitments are outlined in the
Microsoft Product Terms and Data Protection Addendum
.
Web search queries sent from Copilot Chat to Bing are not EUDB-compliant. See more information on
how Microsoft handles generated search queries
.
Additional resources
Last updated on
2026-08-24
