Table of contents
Exit editor mode
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Reading mode
Table of contents
Read in English
Add
Add to Plans
Copy Markdown
Print
Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
signing in
or
changing directories
.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
changing directories
.
Enterprise data protection in Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat
Feedback
Summarize this article for me
Note
Microsoft 365 Copilot is now named Microsoft Copilot, and Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat is now named Microsoft Copilot Chat. Some experiences, licenses, and capabilities might continue to reference Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat during the transition period. There are no changes to security, compliance, and privacy for organizations.
What is enterprise data protection in Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat?
The use of Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat, as used by organizations, is covered by the terms of the
Microsoft Products and Services Data Protection Addendum (DPA)
and
Microsoft Product Terms
, with Microsoft acting as a data processor.
Enterprise data protection (EDP) refers to controls
[1]
and commitments, under the Data Protection Addendum (DPA) and Product Terms, that apply to customer data for users of Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat. The use of the term EDP isn't meant to limit the benefits offered under the DPA and Product Terms.
Enterprise data protection for prompts and responses
Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat offer the same enterprise terms
[2]
available in our Microsoft 365 commercial offerings.
Use of Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat involves prompts (entered by users) and responses (content generated by Copilot). With EDP, prompts and responses are protected by the same contractual terms and commitments widely trusted by our customers for their emails in Exchange and their files in SharePoint.
We secure your data:
We help protect your data with
encryption
at rest and in transit, rigorous physical security controls, and data
isolation
between tenants.
Your data is private:
We won't use your data except as you instruct. Our commitments to
privacy
include support for the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
, the
EU Data Boundary
[3]
,
ISO/IEC 27018
, and our
Data Protection Addendum
.
Your access controls and policies apply to Copilot:
Copilot respects your
identity model
and
permissions
, inherits your
sensitivity labels
, applies your
retention
policies, supports
audit
of interactions, and follows your administrative settings. The specific controls and policies will vary depending on the underlying subscription plan.
You're protected against AI security and copyright risks:
We help safeguard against AI-focused risks such as
harmful content
and
prompt injections
. For content copyright concerns, we provide
protected material detection
and our
Customer Copyright Commitment
.
Your data isn't used to train foundation models:
Microsoft Copilot Chat uses the user's context to create relevant responses. Microsoft Copilot also uses Microsoft Graph data. Consistent with our other Copilot offers, the prompts, responses, and data accessed through Microsoft Graph
aren't used to train foundation models
.
Additional resources
Learn more about data, security, and privacy for Microsoft Copilot
Learn more about data, security, and privacy in Microsoft Copilot Chat
Privacy and security of web queries
Ground responses in latest data
In addition to prompts and responses, web search queries (different from Microsoft Graph queries) are also a part of Copilot interactions. Allowing Copilot to reference web content via these queries improves the quality of Copilot responses by grounding them in the latest information from the web via the Bing search service.
Web queries have their own data handling practices
Web queries sent to the Bing search service are handled identically by both Copilots. Queries are generated from the prompt into a few words. They're sent via a secure connection with user and tenant identifiers removed. They aren't shared with advertisers and aren't used to train our foundation large language models (LLMs).
The Bing search service operates separately from Microsoft 365 and has different data-handling practices covered by the
Microsoft Services Agreement
between each user and Microsoft, together with the
Microsoft Privacy Statement
. This means that Microsoft acts as an independent data controller responsible for complying with all applicable laws and controller obligations. This approach is consistent with other
optional connected experiences that rely on Bing
.
The
Microsoft Product Terms
provide additional commitments about the web queries sent to the Bing search service. For more information, see
Data, privacy, and security for web search in Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat
.
Agents in Microsoft Copilot
When you're using agents in Microsoft Copilot, check the privacy statement and terms of use of the agents to determine how they'll handle your organization's data.
Footnotes
[1]
The specific controls will vary depending on a customer's Microsoft subscription plans.
[2]
Microsoft Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat support HIPAA compliance for properly configured implementations. HIPAA compliance doesn't apply to web search queries as they aren't covered by the DPA and Business Associate Agreement (BAA).
[3]
The EU Data Boundary doesn't apply to web search queries. In addition, Anthropic models are currently excluded from the EU Data Boundary and when applicable, in-country processing commitments.
Learn more about how Anthropic models work with Microsoft Copilot.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
No
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Suggest a fix?
Additional resources
Last updated on
2026-08-18
