Contact our sales team to discuss enterprise pricing.*
What’s included:
Expanded context window that supports longer inputs and larger files
Enterprise-level security and controls, including SCIM, EKM, user analytics, domain verification, and role-based access controls
Advanced data privacy with custom data retention policies, encryption at rest and in transit, and no training on your business data by default. Learn more
Support for data residency in ten regions
24/7 priority support, SLAs, custom legal terms, and access to AI advisors (eligible customers)
**Enterprise and Business can purchase credits for more access
***ChatGPT manages a shared context window to understand your request, track the conversation, retrieve relevant information, and generate responses. The portion available for user input is smaller than the total window, as space is also used for system instructions (including tools and personality), memories (if enabled), and internal processing (reviewing information, reasoning, and response generation). The reported space for user input is an approximation and may change dynamically based on features in use and any memory content.
Trusted by teams at
FAQ
How does ChatGPT’s pricing work?
The free version of ChatGPT is available to everyone. Paid plans (Go, Plus, Business, and Enterprise) are priced per user per month. We offer monthly plans for Go, Plus and Business and annual plans for Business and Enterprise.
Is ChatGPT free to use?
The free version of ChatGPT is available to everyone. Upgrading to Go, Plus, Business, or Enterprise offers a more powerful experience through more access to additional models and features.
Does OpenAI offer a ChatGPT plan for educational institutions?
Yes. We offer ChatGPT for Teachers(opens in a new window), a free plan for verified U.S. K–12 educators through June 2027, and ChatGPT Edu(opens in a new window), an affordable plan that lets universities deploy AI across their campus communities. Both plans include enhanced security and privacy controls, with additional administrative features available for schools, districts, and universities. Contact our team to learn more.
Does OpenAI offer a discount for nonprofits?
Yes. Through OpenAI for Nonprofits, nonprofits can now access up to a 75% discount on ChatGPT Business or ChatGPT Enterprise. Contact our sales team(opens in a new window) to get started.
How many users are supported on each subscription plan?
Go, Free, and Plus plans are designed to be used by individuals. Business and Enterprise are for businesses. Business plans are available starting at 2 users. Please contact sales to learn more about our Enterprise plan.
What are my payment options?
You can purchase ChatGPT Go, Plus, Pro, or Business with any major credit card. For ChatGPT Enterprise, please contact sales for alternative payment options such as invoicing.
How secure is ChatGPT?
All data is encrypted in transit (TLS 1.2). Data at rest is encrypted at rest (AES-256), and strict access controls are used to limit who can access data. Our security team has an on-call rotation that has 24/7/365 coverage and is paged in case of any potential security incident. We offer a Bug Bounty Program for responsible disclosure of vulnerabilities discovered on our platform and products. Please visit our Trust Portal(opens in a new window) for more details.
